# A Comparison of data-limited stock assesment models

Welcome to the repository hosting the code and data linked with our paper on the
predictive performance of catch-only models (COMs) for estimating the status of
fish stocks in data-limited fisheries. Fisheries management requires reliable
estimates of the status of fish stocks to ensure their long-term sustainability.
However, many fisheries lack the data required for full stock assessments,
leading to the development of data-limited methods, including COMs. Our paper
compares the performance of six COMs, including both empirical and mechanistic
approaches, using simulated data generated by two fisheries simulation
frameworks and an ecosystem simulation package. The results highlight the
limitations and variability in the accuracy of different models across a range
of stock characteristics and ecosystem assumptions. This repository provides the
code and data used in our analysis, and we hope it will serve as a valuable
resource for researchers and managers working in data-limited fisheries.

The main component of the repository is an R script 'analysis.R' for the comparison of the performance of different fishery assessment packages. This script compares the results of three different fishery assessment packages, FLR, DLMtool, and Rpath, and uses simulated data as input. It outputs the accuracy, false-negative rate, and false-positive rate of the assessments for the biomass relative to B/BMSY and the management reference point (B/K) for each package and model.

## Dependencies

To run the code in this repository, you will need to have the following packages installed in R:

- `tidyverse`
- `dplyr`
- `rpart`
- `rpart.plot`
- `ggh4x`

You can install these packages using the following command:

```R
install.packages(c("tidyverse", "dplyr", "rpart", "rpart.plot", "ggh4x"))
```

## Data

The analysis uses data from simulated fisheries, which are stored in RDS files in the `data` directory. To load the data, run the following code:

```R
setwd("your-working-directory/fishery-comparison/data")
simulated_data = lapply(list.files(pattern=".rds"), readRDS)
simulated_data = cbind(Package=rep(c("DLMtool", "FLR", "Rpath"), unlist(lapply(simulated_data, nrow))), do.call("rbind", simulated_data))
```

## Analysis

```R
source("~/Code/SydneyUni/fishery-comparison/analysis.R")
```

## Authors and Contribution

Vincent Chin
Roman Marchant
Julia Santana-Garcon
David Tickler
Kendra Thomas Travaille
Sally Cripps
